## Some comments
After checking a coupled of predicted ratios with the data from Bennet 2009 I have seen something weird: It seems like the results are completely opposite! That is, when I predict a ratio below 1, the data show a ratio above 1. Could it be that I got the ratios inversed? Or is it a problem with the prediction, perhaps using the pre-defined irreversible reactions, or the simulated experimental conditions.

## MILP failing
So far, the problematic constraints seems to be the dG0 constraint and y being binary. If these are removed, then I get a feasible solution in which the flux vector satisfies the other constraints.
Correction, adding dG0 constraint but keeping y non-binary also fine.

I suspect the problem is with the indices and the ordering of variables. I get ACCOAC to respect the lower bound of 0.07 even with y = 0! and it is an irreversible reaction with dG0. However, ATPM is also irreversible with dG0 but does not respect the lower bound of 3.15. Something is going on with the indices.

## Note
Iterate only over metabolite pairs which are represented in the submatrix generated by reactions with dG0!

Ok, I think I got it. All irreversible reactions with dG0 and with v_min > 0 should have y_irr = 1, this is why ATPM was not getting the minimum of 3.15, because y_irr was set to 0!!

In fact, to diminish the number of binary variables, I would go ahead and identify the active reactions per fva first, and then remove the y_irr from those, since they have to be active.

Ok, at the end it was the typical error: python starts indexing at 0!!

It works!!!

## Fixing certain concentrations
In Thermodynamics-based metabolic analysis, authors fixed the concentration of intracellular protons to 1e-7M, which corresponds to pH = 7. Also, internal oxygen concentration cannot be higher than that of outside, since no reaction in E. coli produces oxygen and oxygen diffuses passively following a gradient.

## Using a pH range instead of pH = 7
Perhaps good idea to use a range of pH values, such as 7.2 - 7.7 when calculating $\Delta G$s, one would use then the minimum and maximum values of these in the bounds.

## UPDATE: 02/VI/2019
Tried the code with 1% deviation of the dG0 mean to filter the data (Cond1). Obtained a graph with only 5 metabolites and took around 5000 seconds. Clearly need to do preprocessing if I want to soften the filter. I could apply the same idea used in the flux orders: sample the space of possible concentrations and discard the pairs with conflicting order relation.

Should also organize the code: it is a mess!

## Organizing the code
After reading and thinking about it, I believe now that the best way to organize code in python is through modules. The only tricky thing with python is that namespaces are not shared between modules. So for instance, if I have a module named parameters and I want to use some of the variables defined there in another module called module1, then I would have to do something like this in module1

```python3
import parameters as p
p.parameter1
```

or alternatively

```python3
from parameters import parameter1, parameter2
parameter1 + parameter2
```

These two alternatives would work to transfer objects between modules.

## Reducing computational time
Sampling takes too much time when delta_dG0 > 0.1 because there are too many constraints. What ca we do?

1. Increase tolerance of the objective function: i do no care if the optimum is reached since I just want to generate a random point inside the feasible region.
2. Use the MILP to obtain the path of alternative suboptimal solutions as my sample. Perhaps glpk even provides this option.
3. Use Gurobi, I have the license available for one more year...
4. Perhaps there is another, cheaper, method to sample the feasible space via a MILP? i.e., a different objective function that is less demanding. 

So, I implemented these ideas and I have been able to reduce the computational time significantly.

## A coment on results so far 
I've seen that the number of ordered pairs is extremely sensitivy to:
1. The global concentration lower bound (almost no pairs when x_min < 1e-4)
2. The minimum pH value (many pairs when pH_min > 7.1)

Why is that? What can we conclude from this? What other experiments, observations are pertinent? 
